sandbox friendly gradle builds in nix
======================================

This flake provides a way to build gradle projects in a sandboxed nix environments.

No configuration should be needed, just import the flake and use the provided outputs.

Usage
---

(The following descriptions assume you use a pretty default gradle project structure. If you have a more complex setup, you might need to adjust accordingly.)

To start using this flake, you need to generate a `gradle/verification-metadata.xml` file in your project and check it into your VCS.

This file can be generated by running the following command in your project:
```sh
gradle -M sha256 build
```

This will generate a `gradle/verification-metadata.xml` file that contains the sha256 hashes of all the dependencies used in the build.

Note: I have not tried it with more custom `verification-metadata.xml` files, so I cannot guarantee that it will work with those. If you run into any such problem please open an issue.

### Maven repository

If you want to have a sandbox friedly maven repository, you can use the `mvn-repo` output.

This is useful if you already use a version of such a maven repo in your project.
```nix
maven-repo = 
    import gradle-dot-nix {
        inherit pkgs;
        gradle-verification-metadata-file = ./gradle/verification-metadata.xml;
    }.mvn-repo;
```
This maven repo can be used in your `build.gradle` file like this:
```groovy
repositories {
    if(project.hasProperty("nixMavenRepo")) {
        maven { url = nixMavenRepo }
    }
}
```
or in .kts files like this:
```kotlin
repositories {
    val nixMavenRepo: String? by settings
    if (nixMavenRepo != null) {
        maven { url = uri(nixMavenRepo!!) }
    }
}
```

And then you can build your project with the following command:
```sh
gradle -PnixMavenRepo=${maven-repo} build
```

### Gradle init script

There is also a `gradle-init` output that can be used to create a gradle init script.
This is a more straightforward way to use the flake, as it does not require any configuration in the actual project.

```nix
gradle-init-script = 
    import gradle-dot-nix {
        inherit pkgs;
        gradle-verification-metadata-file = ./gradle/verification-metadata.xml;
    }.gradle-init;
```

This init script can be used like this:
```sh
gradle -I ${gradle-init-script} build
```

There should be no need to modify any files in the project to use this.
The generated init script will automatically set the maven repository for the project and remove `repositoriesMode.set(RepositoriesMode.FAIL_ON_PROJECT_REPOS)` from the settings.

Sample Project
---

A sample project that uses this flake can be found [here](https://github.com/CrazyChaoz/Minimal-Android-UWB-App).

License
---

This flake is licensed under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.


Implementation Details
---

The project currently uses python3 to parse the `gradle/verification-metadata.xml` file and to fetch the dependencies from the maven repository.
This is done to simplify the nix expressions and to avoid having to deal with the xml in nix.
It also speeds up the development process, as the python scripts are easier to write and debug than nix expressions.

The python scripts are not very complex and should be easy to understand nixify if you want to do that. 
I don't have any motivation to do that myself, but I would be happy to accept a PR that does that.

A starting point for that would be to convert the python scripts to bash scripts, as they are self-contained and don't do too much magic.